Your open brain can think and now it
needs hands. Agents are the fastest
growing category in software. Open claw
has spawned easily over one and a half
million autonomous agents in just a few
weeks now. And every one of these agents
has the same challenge. They can't
remember you. Every new session starts
from zero. Every tool switch wipes the
slate. You get the idea. I suggested a
few days ago a solution called Open
Brain. It's just a personal database
that you own. It's connected to any AI
you choose through an MCP server and it
can access any frontier model or yes it
can access open clause you like. The
question I got from thousands of people
who built this system was simple. What
do you do with a memory system once you
have it? Now I suggested a few use cases
in the original video. I talked about
how this is great for remembering notes
from meetings for making decisions more
intelligently. That's fine. In this
video we're going to talk about going
farther. We're going to talk about truly
giving your open brain hands and feet.
And what I mean by that is how do you
start to make your open brain, your
storage system that you built, something
that can give you a proactive edge, a
truly AI powered edge in your daily life
at work, etc. We'll get into a bunch of
use cases, so stay with me. But one
thing that I want to emphasize before we
dive in is the same thing I called out
at the very top of the OpenBrain video.
every extension we're going to talk
about building here on OpenBrain. And
yes, I have a guide up on Substack.
You'll see visuals with this video.
It'll be it'll be easy to understand,
but every one of these extensions needs
to be a surface that both you and your
agent can see and act upon. Not one or
the other. That was the key breakthrough
with OpenBrain. We're going to keep it.
Before we dive into specific use cases,
and I have a bunch, I want to give you a
picture. Right now when you use
something like open brain which is
really a database with an MCP server
you're chatting through a keyhole you're
talking in cla you're talking in chat
GPT you're talking in openclaw and using
an SMS tool and you're getting data back
and it's amazing and if you're using
something like openclaw it's proactive
it's surprisingly insightful if you it's
surprisingly insightful if you use a
chatbot like claude fantastic we all
love it but it's a keyhole it's only
textbased
You can't build a visual app if you're
just working with an MCP server, a
database, and a chatbot. Now, of course,
those of you who are developers know you
can use chat bots to build those apps.
That's fantastic. You're already off to
the races. I love that for you. For the
rest of us, if you need some help
figuring out what are the use cases and
how can you build on top of this to
actually build something that is agent
readable and also useful. So, for
example, you could ask your agent,
"What's on the family schedule this
week?" and get not just a text list
back, but an actual calendar that shows
you where the cross reference scheduling
conflicts are and that proactively
surfaces relevant information you need,
like, "Hey, we should remember to pack
the kids school lunch." Well, you need
agent reasoning across data for that
kind of thing. But you also need to find
a way to see the data with your human
eyes even as the agent reads the data.
You need both. And I got to be honest
with you, not a lot of interfaces do
that. I had to think hard about how I
wanted to solve a situation where you
need both agent read and write and also
human read and write because both need
to feel native. So this is what I came
up with. We start from the ground up
just a structured table in your open
brain database. the same Superbase
instance you may have already built
because so many folks built OpenBrain
and we just add a light interface, a
light visual over the top. The table in
the database is our shared surface. Your
agent can read it through MCP the same
way it already reaches Open Brain. All
you're doing is reading it the way a
human would want to through a simple
view, a web page, a mobile bookmark,
maybe eventually an app that reads from
and writes to the same table. That's it.
We're not adding a new platform. We're
not adding an additional service. We're
not getting middleware sitting between
you and your data. The table remains the
source of truth and both you and your
agent have direct access to it, just
through different doorways. Think about
what that means in practice. Your agent
connects through MCP the way it already
does and knows how. It can query the
table. It can write new rows. It can
update existing rows. It can reason
across everything in it alongside every
other table in your open brain. It can
change things that you see in the visual
on the fly. So nothing changes about how
the agent side works. You just get to
see more impact from it because you
build a visual over the top. The new
piece is that visual. I call it the
human door. A view that lets you see
what's in your tables in your database,
your maintenance log, your family
schedule, your job search pipeline,
whatever you want to use open brain for.
And we'll talk about all of those. It's
all formatted for scanning, not for
conversation. One of the things that's
challenging is the infinite scroll. If
you're in a long scroll with a claw
chatbot, with chat GPT, maybe with your
open claw, you are going to be going
back and forth, back and forth, having
these conversations when maybe the data
is really suitable just to have a look
at. Maybe you just want to browse by
category or sort by date or see
conflicts highlighted. And when you need
to add or change something, you want to
edit directly and visually because
that's the way we humans work. and you
want it to just reflect in the data so
your agent can see it live. The reason
this works and the reason it's different
from every app that you've probably
tried is that there's no sync layer.
There's no export layer. There's no
connected integration that might break
or lag or lose data. The table is just
the single source of truth. When your
agent writes to it during a
conversation, the entry is immediately
visible the next time you pull up the
view on your phone. When you update a
field on your phone, the change is
immediately there the next time your
agent queries the table. So both sides
are reading and writing to the same rows
to the same book. You could imagine it
in the library. The consistency is
architectural. It's built in. And the
magic of this is the same magic we had
with OpenBrain. Because it's just a
table with a view. You can build it for
anything. It can be a household
knowledge base in one table in one view.
It can be a maintenance tracker in a
table in a view. It can be a job search
dashboard in a few tables and a few
views. The pattern is the same and the
pattern scales. Just define the
structure. Point your agent at it
through MCP. Point yourself at it
through a simple interface. And that's
all you need to do. The visual layer,
right? The polished version of these
views, the one that feels like a real
app on your phone. That's what we're
here to talk about. That's what I want
to outline for you. I want to outline
the principles that guide it. And I want
to outline some use cases. But you don't
have to wait for that. Superbase has a
built-in table editor that works today.
It's not beautiful, but it's functional.
You can see your data. You can edit it
and your agent sees every change
immediately. You can start there. You
can build the table. You can feed it to
your agent. You can pull up the table
editor in your phone. Now, when you want
to go visual, I will say most of what
I'm describing here, I'm keeping to the
open- source ethos. I'm not picking a
particular SAS provider. If you do want
a shortcut, you can connect your
Superbase to something like lovable and
you can build directly on Lovable and
get many of these features as well. What
I've heard from many of you is that you
don't want to pay the middleman there.
And so I'm going to offer you a
different solution here. Once you have
Open Brain, setting up a new table to
start a new project is going to take
just a few minutes on the agent side of
things. And it will take, to be honest
with you, probably an afternoon on the
visual side if you haven't built before.
The agent side is super easy. You
already know how to do this if you've
built OpenBrain. If you haven't, hey, go
back and grab that video. It's the same
superbased dashboard you used when you
built OpenBrain. Just create the table,
add columns for what you're tracking,
and your agent can reach it immediately
through MCP and we're all done here. The
human side is the visual. It's not rows
and columns in the database. It's a real
interface, a visual dashboard you could
check with coffee, maybe a calendar
view. The sky is the limit as far as
your imagination goes. And I will
suggest some specific ones that I've
built with visuals in the rest of this
video. So here's how you build it.
First, just talk to your favorite AI.
Talk to Claude, talk to Chad GPT, and
describe what you want. Hey, I want a
mobile friendly view of my maintenance
table. It should show every appliance in
the house. It should show the warranty
date, and it should show the last
service date. Please highlight anything
expiring in the next 30 days. Your AI
will then generate a small web
application. And what's nice is it knows
your superbase data so it can call it
and we'll get a sense of that data
schema as it builds and that allows it
to build a higher fidelity piece of
code. You can go back and forth with it
at this point. It's going to show you a
preview of what the app will look like.
You can adjust the layout by simply
typing commands and you can change
what's highlighted. You can make it
exactly the way you want. But right now,
that application only lives on your
computer until you put it somewhere.
Now, if you're happy with that, that's
fine.
But if it needs a home on the internet,
if it needs a URL that you can hit from
any computer or any phone, then you need
to find another tool to get that job
done. It won't just be the AI on your
laptop. And that is where we turn to a
service called Versel. Versel is simply
a free hosting service. It does have
paid plans, but what I'm describing here
would not hit paid plan limits. All you
do is you create an account. You upload
the application your AI built and I'll
show you how. And Versell will give you
a live URL, a real web address you can
open on your phone, on your partner's
phone, on a tablet, at the kitchen
table, etc. You just bookmark that on
your home screen and it behaves just
like an app. No app store, no
subscription, just a page on the
internet that talks to your database.
Now both the doors are open. The agent
reaches your table through the MCP. The
visual reaches the same table through a
database connection. When your agent
logs a note during the conversation, it
just shows up on your screen the next
time you open that web page. When you
tap a field on your phone to update a
date, your agent sees the change the
next time it reasons about your week.
One source of truth, two interfaces,
each built for what we're good at. The
human interface for us visual folks and
the agent interface through the MCP
server. So that's how you do it. What
does it look like in practice? I find a
lot of people think they have so much
possibility, but it's like watching a
pot boil. It's like, what do I pick?
What do I pick? Let me give you some
ideas. I was able to build all of these
relatively easily with my open brain.
And I think you can build it with yours,
too. Each of these will have a guide in
the Substack. So, if any of these spark
your imagination, you can head over
there and you can grab the build kit. As
I said in the last video, if you are
someone who likes to grab the transcript
from the YouTube and just pipe it into
your claude and you like to roll your
own, great. Have fun. Let's start with
household knowledge. I'm a parent. Every
household runs on information that lives
absolutely nowhere. Paint colors, kids
shoe sizes, the plumber you used two
years ago, the Wi-Fi password for the
guest network. The answer always exists
somewhere. It might be in a text thread.
It might be a receipt in the drawer. It
might be in someone's memory. And you
can never find it the minute you need
it. I would suggest to you that you
start feeding that information into a
table in your open brain as you
encounter it. You're talking to Claude
about something else entirely and you
mention the paint color. Hey, save this.
The living room paint is Benjamin Moore
Hail Navy. We got it at Sherman Williams
back in October. Claude writes the
entry. Two seconds. Done. You don't
think about it again. You could have
that same conversation with Chad GPT or
you could have it with OpenClaw. It
doesn't matter. The data lands in the
same table. The agent writable side
captures facts in a structured form from
ordinary conversation. Over a few weeks,
the table will fill up with the
institutional knowledge of your
household. where the keys live, what
color the paint is, when you last got
the tires changed, all of that stuff.
And when the time comes and when you are
ready to make it visual, to make it easy
to understand, I think the simplest way
to think about this is to actually build
a search bar and a search interface over
the top of this table so that you can
easily find something in the back of
your head. I also think it would
probably be relevant to a lot of folks
to have categories for this knowledge
that's easily visual. And so what's in
my head is a search bar at the top of
the page that you can search for
anything and that feels like the chat,
right? To be fair. But then in addition,
what isn't in the chat is actually
categories of knowledge created by the
agent as it's categorizing inside that
table in open brain. And so you can
start to see, oh wow, this is all about
the living room or oh wow, this is all
about the car or oh well or oh wow, this
is all about the kids in school.
whatever it is, you can see those
categories start to pop up and you can
actually start to dive in and understand
where you've recorded your household
knowledge, where the gaps are, and you
can start to get all of that mental
labor a little bit out of your heads and
into something that's scalable. Here's
another one. What about professional
relationships? Let's say you have dozens
or hundreds of professional
relationships that matter and very
limited ability to maintain all of those
professional relationships. The context
is scattered across emails, across
messages, and your memory is biased
toward the most recent interaction. You
can ask Claude, "Anyone I've been
neglecting," and it will scan for a full
picture in your open brain. If you've
been logging it, it might say, "You
haven't reached out to James in a few
months. Last time you talked, he was
worried about his team's reorg." That
kind of thing typically resolves in a
quarter. Maybe it's a good time to check
in. So time bridging and crosscategory
reasoning work really really well
together and they're triggered by that
open-ended question. Open claw could
catch the same gap autonomously and
maybe flag it on a Monday morning for
you to digest. You didn't ask but the
window was closing and the data made it
obvious and open claw found it. All of
that is a function of your ability to
regularly log that kind of detail in a
table. But you might be wondering, what
might that look like if it was in an
interface you could read and interact
with easily? How might you visualize
that? Well, to be honest with you, I
think that one's pretty easy. To me, it
feels like I would love to see at a
glance any given week which professional
relationships are most at risk for me
that I need to pay attention to cuz I
haven't reached out. You know, it's so
easy to connect with someone at a
conference, to have a good moment around
the watercolor, whatever it is, and then
you find that two or three months have
gone by, you haven't connected. You want
to keep that connection warm. It would
be great to have a visual that almost
has little like flame emojis that says,
"This one's needing attention. This one
doesn't need as much attention." It
would also be good for me to be able to
work with that application to get a
specific or dynamic view. Let's say I
really want to enrich my professional
relationships around AI and education. I
would love to be able to dig into my
professional network and understand that
and also ideally have a proactive
agentic response based on my LinkedIn
profile, based on my email, based on
what's in my open brain database where
my agent can tell me, hey, this is who
you know in AI and education. this is
who you might want to reach out to to
strengthen that connection. And by the
way, we threw in a web search. This is
who you should add. They're like one
degree away from you on LinkedIn or
you've reached out to someone in their
company on email and we think they would
be a great connect. Wouldn't that be
helpful? Wouldn't it be helpful to have
someone help you manage that
professional relationship side? It feels
like for so many of us that's done by
chance. It doesn't have to be. Here's
another great use for open brain. Try
the job hunt. Fundamentally, a job hunt
is a dozen or more parallel work streams
that are all pretending to be one
activity. Companies, roles, contacts,
applications, interviews, follow-ups,
resume versions, compensation data, and
you have inside all of that your own
shifting sense of which opportunity
you're really looking for. This is where
the full open brain architecture really
earns its key. You are doing
crosscategory reasoning here because you
might paste a posting into chat GPT and
say, "What do I have on this company?"
And it doesn't just read the posting. It
scans your contacts. It looks at
conference notes. It looks at
relationship data and says, "You met
someone from their data team at the
conference back in October. You noted a
good conversation about distributed
systems and they said they were hiring."
So what you get is a warm introduction
instead of a cold application. It's
surfaced by connecting data across
tables that you might not cross
reference manually. And it's already
valuable, but we can go farther. Let's
say a contact offered to introduce you
to a VP just a few days ago. You meant
to follow up, but life intervened. Open
Claw might catch the gap overnight and
flag it on Monday morning. Hey, that was
9 days ago. The window on a warm intro
is roughly 2 weeks. You don't want to
lose this. You didn't have to ask in
that case. You didn't have you didn't
have to remember. An autonomous agent
running on a schedule caught what a
session-based client never would because
you didn't have to think to ask. And the
whole problem is that you forgot. So you
wouldn't have remembered. Job hunts
don't die because people aren't
qualified. They die because warm
introductions go cold. Momentum dies.
You're drowning in the other 11 work
streams. And I can go on with a job
hunt. There are all these different
applications, right? Let's say after
several interviews, you ask Claude,
"What patterns do you see across my
interviews?" Wouldn't it be great if
instead of getting a long text message
at that point, you could have a
proactive web app that visually surfaces
the patterns that you're seeing, your
four strongest interviews summarized
with key strengths in a way that's
visual and easy to scan. Maybe insights
about company size you didn't see based
on all of the different interviews and
applications you've done. Maybe insights
about resume versions if you're tracking
that per job where you can say, "Okay,
version 1.3 is doing a lot better." And
so this allows you to be in a position
where you can pull up a job search
dashboard over coffee and the whole
pipeline is visible at once. You can see
those insights about your your proactive
job search patterns that are surfaced
from the database, but you can also see
which companies are active and hiring,
which companies are early in the
pipeline for you. You've just submitted
the resume. You can see the shape of
your search in a way that's entirely
customized to you. You can literally
create the app and deploy it for free. I
do know that there are companies that
try to do pieces of this that succeed in
various ways, right? There's ré AI,
there's ré AI companies, there's
companies that like to there's ré AI
companies, there are other companies
that like to visualize the job search.
But what's different about the whole
open brain approach is you're not paying
someone for this. You're just putting it
together and you're getting it done. But
what's different about the whole open
brain approach is you don't have SAS
revenue. You're not paying Lovable for
this necessarily unless you choose to.
Uh you're not paying Versel. This is
really not something that's expensive
because it's not high traffic. It's just
free and you can just put it up and it
talks to your database and you're done.
And now you're in charge of your data
and now your agent can read your data.
And this is where I call out that
everything I've described here depends
on an architectural decision that you
already made. Your data is agent
readable. Your AI reaches it directly.
It queries it. It reasons about it. It
writes to it. It connects it to other
data. It doesn't scrape a UI. There's no
export here. It doesn't ask permission
from a platform that actually controls
the access layer. And because the data
layer is yours, any client can reach it.
So Claude can reach it for a reasoning
session. Chat GPT can reach it for a
question. Open clock can monitor while
you sleep. And it'll go farther. When
chat GPT launches an autonomous agent at
some point, you're going to be able to
plug into that MCP server because I
guarantee you MCP is everywhere.
everything will be pluggable into MCP.
And so this gives you that futurep
proofing. If you're not ready for Open
Claw yet, you can wait for the right
agent to come along and hook into it
that way. And so the long-term bet is
pretty simple. Every time the models get
smarter, every extension you've built
gets more valuable automatically. So the
agent reading your family schedule
today, that's great. But next year's
model is automatically going to be
better at spotting conflicts.
Automatically going to be better at
anticipating your needs. Automatically
going to be better at doing things you
can't even imagine prompting for right
now. All you're doing is logging data
and creating patterns so that you can
start an AI flywheel that adds value to
your life. And you don't have to stop.
You can just keep naturally logging it
and watch the intelligence that hundreds
of billions of dollars is being poured
into creating automatically go to work
for you. When they drop a new model,
your whole system automatically gets
smarter. That's smart thinking. That's a
flywheel. Now, you might wonder, I've
referenced a few different principles
throughout. What principles do I have in
mind as I picked these examples and
constructed this system? I did not
cherrypick these problem spaces. I
picked them specifically and I want to
give you my secret for how I picked them
because I want you to see the world the
way I see the world, the way an AI agent
can picture the world so that you see
problem spaces in your life that are
susceptible to agent readable and human
readable solutions both at the same
time. If you can start to develop that
set of eyes, put on those glasses for a
moment with me, you are going to be able
to spot the kind of ideas that you can
leverage on your own using these
principles to build on the top of your
open cloud because let me tell you once
you deploy your first Versel app, it's
trivially easy to do it again and you
can just add as many of these as you
want. So what are the characteristics of
this kind of problem set? Number one,
you need to find problems where your
agent can bridge time for you. Agentic
memory doesn't decay the way human
memory does. It's got problems, but it's
different problems. So, anywhere the
value comes from linking events spread
across months and years, that's your
agent's territory. Remember, I talked a
little bit about maintenance and
maintenance dates. One of the things
most people struggle with is remembering
when was the last time I did X or Y, and
it's adultting stuff, right? It's when
was the last time I got my teeth looked
at. When was the last time I changed the
tires on the car? When was the last time
I looked at the dryer vent? None of that
is exciting, but it's super important.
And by the way, there's a whole
equivalent on the business side. When
was the last time I filed my report with
a state for the LLC? When was the last
time that I actually updated my security
training that I have to do once a year?
When was the last time that I actually
did the quarterly competitive analysis
that I said I'd do every quarter, but we
know I didn't? Your agent bridges across
time can help. Second principle, your
agent sees across categories. The power
isn't in any single table here. It's in
the connections between the tables that
humans don't cross reference. And so
that's where this starts to build on
itself because you can build a household
knowledge base and you can build
something around meal planning and you
can build something around maintenance
and you can get really interesting cross
connections. For example, your open claw
or your autonomous agent or even in a
conversation with claude if you say hey
I have a question about this may notice
that the dishwasher hasn't been looked
at in 6 months. Maybe it's time for you
to stock something different in the
fridge with easy to clean dishes because
you're going to have to get the
maintenance guy in. And that's multiple
tables talking to each other that I
think most of us wouldn't think about
proactively. At least I wouldn't. Four,
agent surfaces, human decides, agent
executes. I think this is a fundamental
loop we're going to see more and more
of, and I want to get you guys ready for
it now. The agent should be handling
more and more of the memory and the
pattern recognition. You should be
focusing on handling good judgment and
good decisioning. That division keeps
things really clean and it's what makes
the system trustworthy. I am not asking
you to do what some people advocate with
Open Claw and just turn over your life
to OpenClaw and hope it doesn't delete
your emails. No, this doesn't even
require you to have OpenClaw. I hope
you've noticed that. I've referenced
Claude. I've referenced ChatgPT. You
don't have to use an autonomous agent to
get a ton of value out of Open Brain.
Open Brain is there for you at the level
of AI you're comfortable with. If you
want to build an extension over the top
and all you want to do is be able to
display data that's in the table in an
attractive way, that is already
incredibly powerful and you can get a
ton out of it. Data visualization is one
of those things that AI is incredibly
good at, especially with good data
underneath, which is what we're getting
with OpenBrain. And you can get a lot of
mileage out of that. You can also get a
ton of mileage out of just using chat
GPT to query your open brain about some
of the topics I'm talking about. But
when you're ready, maybe when a secure
agent comes along from chat GPT, maybe
you feel comfortable. You can securely
set up Open Claw. I had a whole guide on
how to do that. Well, that's great. In
that case, you can go ahead and get that
autonomous side kicked into where you
can have your OpenClaw autonomously
monitoring some of these pieces for you
and proactively surfacing stuff.
Fundamentally, any problem in your life
that involves scattered information,
events spread out over time, multiple
categories that need cross referencing,
just point your open brain at that.
Create the table, feed it data, let your
AI do what it was built to do. The
visual layer is the next build, and
that's the piece I talked about today.
It is the piece you can layer on. That
is the human front door. And the beauty
of this system is it is so easy to have
a human front door into your data that
keeps you in sync with what your agent
is thinking in a way that your brain can
process. Our brains are not table
brains, most of us. Our brains are
visual. We would love to have a nice
graphical user interface without
interfering with what the agent does.
This system lets you do that. You built
a system where your agents can see the
data. You did the hard part. Now give
them something worth seeing. And now
make sure you can enjoy the value of
that by looking at it in a way that
works for you. That's what this video is
about. I have a whole guide on the
Substack, lots of other use cases over
there. You could check it out or as I
said, feed this video all the way in and
let your Open Claw build it. Let your
claw build it. Have fun. And it's a wild
future, but I could not be more excited
for it. Ultimately, what this whole
story with Open Brain is about is you
taking control of your data, not letting
middlemen in the middle. And that's what
we're continuing here. No middlemen in
the middle. You're just getting your
data out there in a way that you can see
it and interact with it. Preserving that
agent readability and really expanding
the use cases. I hope this has given you
a sense of the kinds of problems that
are agent susceptible that are openrain
susceptible and expanded your horizons
about what this tool can do. It's
incredibly flexible. So have fun
building. Tell me what extensions you're
building with open brain. I'd love to
see them. Cheers.